Add guidance on Performance (#165)
canonical-webteam/practices: coding/performance.md

### Third party code

Third party code should only be added after a careful cost benefit analysis. If you are including an externally linked library, you should be extra careful as the size of that library is outside our control.

### Rendering

How a web page renders has a huge effect on the perception of how responsive that page is - even small delays of milliseconds can degrade the user experience.

- Wherever possible, defer the loading of third-party code until after `window.onload`
- Where the above is not possible, use the `async` attribute on the `<script>` element to prevent blocking.
- Animations and transforms should be done using CSS instead of Javascript.
- Don't hijack native browser scroll
- Limit DOM nodes to a minimum
- Consider inlining critical CSS

### Leverage browser caching

As mentioned above, round trips to the server are expensive. Subsequent requests for static assets that do not change frequently can be avoided by specifying an explicit caching policy. However, do not forget to implement a strategy to invalidate the cache if and when those assets do change.

## Testing tools

- [Google Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/)

> - [Webpage Test](https://www.webpagetest.org/)

Reviewer: Last week you were using a couple other tools, maybe those could be added here as well.

Author: That was Speedcurve which is a subscription SaaS.. however it's built on top of Webpage Test which is already listed.

- Serve appropriately sized images proportionate to where the browser will display them.
- Use appropriate file types. If possible, use WebP - a modern image format that provides superior lossless and lossy compression for images on the web.
- Use SVGs where possible for vector based images.
- Lazy load images that are not visible on initial page load.

### Third party code

Third party code should only be added after a careful cost benefit analysis. If you are including an externally linked library, you should be extra careful as the size of that library is outside our control.

### Rendering

How a web page renders has a huge effect on the perception of how responsive that page is - even small delays of milliseconds can degrade the user experience.

- Wherever possible, defer the loading of third-party code until after `window.onload`
- Where the above is not possible, use the `async` attribute on the `<script>` element to prevent blocking.
- Animations and transforms should be done using CSS instead of Javascript.
- Don't hijack native browser scroll
- Limit DOM nodes to a minimum
- Consider inlining critical CSS

### Reduce HTTP requests

> Round trips to the server are expensive. We should be aware that our users may lose connection before they have downloaded all the assets required to complete page load. Reduce HTTP requests as much as possible by concatenating CSS & JS and embedding images and icons using SVG or Base64 formats.

Reviewer: This isn't always the best case scenario. Sometimes splitting up the file to take advantage of multiple simultaneous requests is more efficient. Embedding images and icons also reduces the ability for the browser to cache the page making subsequent visits or other page visits slower.

Author: It was my understanding that this was only a consideration once we start utilising HTTP/2, as per:

https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/get-started/httprequests-5

@hatched Are you saying we should remove this advice entirely or reword it?

Reviewer: I think I'd propose removing it as it's a case-by-case decision.

Reviewer 2: We are using HTTP/2 for most of our sites - everything except www.ubuntu.com, www.canonical.com, partners.ubuntu.com and assets.ubuntu.com. (Although these properties are very important). But we don't yet have HPush for any of them.

However, HTTP/2 only pushes the needle a bit in terms of the calculus. With HTTP/1 there's still a cutoff of size where assets above that size are better off being sent separately for their cacheabilty, and below, they're better being inlined, as the latency associated with the HTTP handshake is probably greater than the transfer time.

We could probably argue until the cows come home about where to put that threshold - and it very much depends on your connection speed / distance from the server. If we care a lot about those in the third world, we should actually be prioritising splitting & cacheability over inlining more.

But my instincts would be that the line falls somewhere between 100-200KB for HTTP/1, and maybe more like 50-100KB for HTTP/2.

### Leverage browser caching

> As mentioned above, round trips to the server are expensive. These requests can be avoided entirely for static assets that do not change frequently by specifying an explicit caching policy. However, do not forget to implement a strategy to invalidate the cache if and when those assets do change.

Reviewer 2: I feel that "These requests can be avoided entirely for static assets" is a misleading statement. Bounce rates on websites tend to at best be close to 50%, often much higher. This means that at least half our visitors get no benefit from caching.

It's not that long caches aren't great - they are - but no-one should be using them as an excuse for not optimising for first-time visitors.

 ```suggestion
As mentioned above, round trips to the server are expensive. These can be somewhat mitigate by avoiding subsequent requests for static assets that do not change frequently by specifying an explicit caching policy. However, do not forget to implement a strategy to invalidate the cache if and when those assets do change.
```
